- [Voiceover] Hey guys,
it's Alex C with TFBTV.
Today we're going to discuss
what we believe to be
the best five infantry
rifles of World War II.
To qualify, the rifle
has to have been used by
a nation engaged in the war,
so this disqualifies firearms
from nations like Sweden or Switzerland.
Also, this is a list of rifles
firing full-power cartridges,
so submachine guns like the MP40,
machine guns and assault
rifles are not eligible.
Sorry Stermgewehr fans.
Things taken into
consideration for this list
are reliability, innovation, legacy,
total production, and user friendliness.
First up is the French MAS-36.
If I had to choose a bolt-action
rifle to take to war,
this one would be it.
Brave French soldiers
equipped with MAS-36 rifles
alongside brothers with
Hotchkiss guns and Chatelleraults
held the Wehrmacht at
bay during the blitzkrieg
and allowed over 300,000
soldiers from the French Military
and the British Expeditionary
Force to escape to Britain
to fight another day during
the battle of Dunkirk.
Many brave French
soldiers lost their lives,
and Churchill spoke of these men
saying that these Frenchmen,
for four critical days,
contained no less than
seven German divisions.
This was a splendid
contribution to the escape
of their more fortunate comrades.
Britain could not have
continued the war without them.
The future of France seemed dim,
but the free French forces
eventually struck back
with many wielding the MAS-36.
It's short, light, handy as hell,
accurate, rugged, and simple.
The rear-locking bolt provides excellent
mud and sand resistance,
and the rear aperture sight is precise
and provides a long sight radius.
The 7.5 French cartridge is also short,
making the action shorter
and easier to cycle
compared to rifles like the
Springfield 1903, or M1917.
The MAS-36 is easy to
load with stripper clips,
and I've never had a hangup with them
when loading with haste,
which I've actually done quite a lot.
The bolt handle is optimally placed,
and the action is fast,
which makes follow-up shots
very easy to line up.
Aside from this, the MAS-36 is probably
the easiest rifle to maintain on the list,
and taking the bolter out
requires one motion of the hand.
The MAS takes the number
five spot on this list
because of its utilitarian nature
and overall practicality.
While it is not as well known
as other World War II guns,
it certainly deserves
more credit than it gets.
Next up is the Arisaka Type 99.
The Arisaka rifles were
tested by US ordinance
after the war, and the men
conducting the experiments
were astounded by how
strong the actions were.
The carbon steel used
was incredibly strong,
and P.O. Ackley said
this receiver was not only carefully,
but even elaborately heat treated.
To make such heat treatment
and results possible,
the materials must be good.
Bear in mind that this
quote came from a man
who was famous for taking
existing cartridges
and hotrodding the hell out of them,
so this is high praise.
The Arisaka rifles are a
modified Mauser action.
The ranks of the imperial
Japanese military
were largely filled with
members of the peasantry,
and higher ups would often joke
that a new soldier cost
only one yen, five rin,
which was the cost of
mailing a draft notice.
Imperial troops, starting in 1939,
were beginning to be
issued with the Type 99.
Every Type 99 or 38 rifle was engraved
with their chrysanthemum, the
seal of the Japanese emperor.
It was considered a great honor
to serve under the
highly-revered divine Hirohito,
and in the Imperial Rescript to soldiers,
it stated that duty is
heavier than a mountain,
death is lighter than a feather.
The Type 99 is strong, light, handy,
and the 7.7 Japanese cartridge is stout.
The riflers also are equipped
with a number of features
that make it stand out among its peers.
The rear sight is of a ring design,
and has small wings that in theory
allow for more precise
volley fire at airplanes.
The monopod allows for
stable shooting when prone.
The dust cover, while noisy,
also keeps debris out of the action.
Perhaps the most interesting
feature of the type 99
is its chrome lined bore.
This was the first infantry
rifle to make use of this,
and it provided troops with an excellent
and much-needed corrosion resistance
in the humid environments of the Pacific.
The Type 99 is essentially
a modified Mauser action
that is light, handy,
and ridden with features
to enhance its overall effectiveness,
earning it a well-deserved
place on the list.
Next we have a crowd favorite,
Lee-Enfield No. 4.
The No. 4 is an improvement
over the old SMLEs
as it has an excellent
rear aperture sight,
is lighter, has a stronger action,
and is one of the smoothest
rifles you'll ever find.
The 10-round capacity of the
No. 4 gave it a slight edge
over its competitors,
which usually held five,
but the use of rimmed ammunition
makes loading it with
chargers a bit tricky.
Lee-Enfield rifles are
extremely quick to cycle,
and using the thumb and
forefinger on the bolt technique,
even an average marksman
can expend all 10 shots
in the magazine in no time.
The action of the No. 4 is a variation
of the old Lee-Metfords,
which was introduced in 1888.
The resourceful British
continued to tinker
with the action for decades,
and the No. 4 was truly a
world-class combat rifle.
British soldiers armed
largely with No. 4 rifles
punched their way through
the beaches of Normandy
through the low countries to the Rhine,
and didn't stop until
men proudly displaying
the Union Jack paraded through Berlin.
The No. 4 was not officially replaced
until the late 1950s, when
a variation of the FN FAL
was adopted as a replacement,
but it served in the corners
of the empire for much longer.
In fact, a rare variation
developed for snipers,
the L42A1 was not officially
retired and deemed obsolete
until the 1990s.
The No. 4 is regarded
by many as the pinnacle
of what a bolt-action combat rifle can be.
A well-trained man can
turn this bolt action
into a semi-automatic.
Next up is the Karabiner 98 kurz,
usually referred to as the K98k.
The K98k is a carbine version
of the venerable Mauser 98.
According to Mauser,
over 100 million Mausers have been made,
and they are still making
rifles with that action today.
Nearly every bolt action in
production is a derivative,
including guns like the
Remington 700 and Ruger M77.
The K98k was the backbone
of the Wehrmacht,
but the Kriegsmarine and the
Luftwaffe used them as well.
In total, nearly 15
million K98ks were made by
a total of seven factories,
including Mauser,
Berlin-Lubecker, and even Steyr.
The Germans used the Mauser
rifles to devastating effect.
Accuracy is second to none.
An 8x57 is a very stout round.
The Wehrmacht armed with
Mausers and employing tactics
the world had not seen before
conquered the nations
of Europe one by one.
Men in stahlhelms marched through Warsaw,
Amsterdam, Copenhagen,
Brussels, Oslo, and Paris.
The German war machine
relied on the Mauser,
and it took the combined might
of the allies to strike back.
The Mauser is the quintessential
bolt-action military rifle,
and anyone with five
minutes of instruction
can learn to effectively use one.
The K98k's turned down bolt handle
allows for quick cycling
and ease of carry.
The three-position safety is wonderful,
and the action is brutally
strong but also safe,
incorporating a safety lug
at the rear of the bolt.
The gun's massive claw extractor
allows for controlled feed
and incredibly smooth primary
extracting and cycling.
The rifle also cocks on opening,
accomplishing primary
extraction and cocking
in the same motion.
The Germans did field self-loading rifles,
but the G41s, both Walther
and Mauser variants,
as well as the G43s all suffered
from reliability problems,
weight, and complexity.
Thus, the K98k was produced
in at least some form
until the end of the war.
More soldiers have entered
into battle with a Mauser
than any other shoulder-arm in history,
and the iconic K98k
variant definitely deserves
a spot on this list.
Lastly, we have a rifle that
you may have already guessed,
the M1 Garand.
This is not me being patriotic
or biased in favor of American small arms.
It would be foolish not
to put the M1 on the list,
as it was the harbinger
of the general issue
semi-automatic infantry rifle.
There were self-loading
rifles before the M1,
like the French RSC1917,
but the Garand was the rifle
that truly proved to the world
that the era of semi-automatic
rifles had arrived.
John Garand, a
Canadian-American toolmaker,
revolutionized rifle production
while working at the Springfield Armory,
and his genius allowed for
cost-effective production
of semi-automatic rifles.
The M1 beat out the Pedersen rifle,
which was the first self-loader
approved for adoption
by a U.S. infantry board,
and became the symbol of a generation
of American fighting men.
Officially adopted in 1936,
over six million were produced
and used to great effect
in North Africa, mainland Europe,
and the Pacific, where my
own grandfather in his words
gave Tojo hell at Zig
Zag Pass with the 38th.
The M1 is a gas-operated rifle
with a long stroke piston
and a rotating bolt.
It is loaded via
eight-round en bloc clips,
which are fast as hell to
throw in and get to business.
Accuracy for a rifle that
was designed in the 1920s
is excellent, and even today,
M1s can be seen shooting
at competitions everywhere.
The rifle is famous for the
harmonious ping it makes
after firing its last round
and ejecting the clip.
Many people over the years have said
this has gotten many GIs killed,
but in my research, I have not come across
a confirmed account,
mostly because you can reload
an M1 in two or three seconds.
Combat doesn't usually
happen at 10 meters,
and your squad-mate next to you had an M1,
the guy next to him had a Thompson,
and the guy next to him was
doing his thing with a BAR.
The M1 did not completely
exit US military service
until the mid-1960s.
They were surplussed or
given to friendly nations.
In World War II, the M1 was king.
It offered quick loading,
incredible accuracy, excellent sights,
and reliable semi-automatic fire power.
Thank you for watching
this episode of TFBTV.
In World War II, which infantry
rifle would you have wanted?
Put your answer in the comments below,
and we'd love to hear your answer.
A special thank you to Ventura Munitions
for supplying the ammo
for our shooting videos,
and a special thank you
to you all for watching.
We hope to see you next time.